# [KRYSBAS](https://github.com/nidtec-una/krysbas-dev)
A repository for KRYlov Subspace-Based Adaptive Solvers for Sparse Linear Systems. Developed at the [Scientific Computing and Applied Mathematics](https://nidtec.pol.una.py/ccyma/) group at the [NIDTEC](https://nidtec.pol.una.py/) research center of the [Polytechnic Faculty, National University of Asunción, Paraguay](https://www.pol.una.py/).

## **Table of Contents**
1. [Introduction](#introduction)
    - [Krylov Subspace Methods](#krylov-subspace-methods)
2. [Generalized minimal residual method (GMRES)](#generalized-minimal-residual-method-gmres)
3. [The adaptive approach](#the-adaptive-approach)

## **Introduction**
The main goal of this library is to propose control strategies for Krylov Subspace iterative methods, which is supported on new paradigms of computational architectures aiming at their stability, robustness and speed. Two types of algorithms will be considered:

* those that present the best efficiency for defined positive symmetric systems, and
* those that present better efficiency for general systems, possibly indefinite and poorly conditioned.

This repository is also intended to explore applications to real-world problems.

### **Krylov Subspace Methods**
The $r$-th order [Krylov Subspace](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Krylov_subspace) generated by a $n\times n$ matrix $A$ and a vector $b$ of dimension $n$ is the linear subspace spanned by matrix-vector multiplications between the powers of $A$ and the vector $b$.

```math
\mathcal{K}_r(A,b) = \text{span} \lbrace b, Ab, A^2b, \ldots, A^{r-1}b \rbrace
```

## **Generalized minimal residual method (GMRES)**
The [GMRES(m)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generalized_minimal_residual_method) (Saad) method approximates the solution to the linear system $Ax=b$ at the $j$-th restart cycle using the previous residual, $r_{j-1}=b-Ax_{j-1}$, by constructing a $m$th-order Krylov subspace. The $j$-th approximation is built as:

```math
x_{j} = x_{j-1} + \mathcal{K}_{m} (A,r_{j-1})
```

where the index $m$ denotes that the restarting parameter was set to the value $m$. GMRES($m$) obtains an approximate solution which minimizes the $2$-norm of the residual $r_j$, i.e.,

```math
\min_{x_{j}\in x_{j-1} + \mathcal{K}_{m} (A,r_{j-1})}   \parallel b-Ax_{j} \parallel. $$
```
In practice:

* if $m$ is not appropriate, then GMRES($m$) stagnates (the residual norm reduces very slowly),
* important information about $\mathcal{K}_{m} (A,r_{j-1})$ is lost in the restarting process.

## **The adaptive approach**
In this repository, a combination of strategies that improve the convergence of GMRES($m$) is presented. Some techniques are:

1. **Adaptive controllers** : control-theory based, proportional-derivative controllers that modify the restarting parameter $m$ when stagnation is detected (Cuevas).

```math
aqui va la formula PD rule?
```

2. **Enriching the Krylov Subspace by switching techniques**: the Krylov search subspace is augmented by aggregating either error approximation vectors of the current subspace before restart (Baker) or Harmonic Ritz vectors (Morgan) in the case the previous ones do not help to improve the rate of convergence. The switching strategy has been studied in (Cabral).

## **References**
(add references here?)